431 Final Project User Manual
By: Justin Cote, Liam Garrett
Same as 431w STAGE 3 READ ME
Our project consists of a frontend (designed in React) and a backend (structured using nodejs).
We are using netlify to host our frontend on a virtual page accessible to anybody with the url. We
will provide this url to you later in the readme so you can access the site.
You will be required to download our backend and interface with a terminal to initialize and
construct our database on your local machine. Below we will guide you through how to …
- Install MySQL on your device
- Configure MySQL to work be able to connect to our database
- Install required packages to run our backend (npm package)
- Execute commands to initialize our database
- Start the backend server to listen for requests from the front end
- Find the webpage our UI resides on for interaction
This project was worked on for many hours. Both Justin and Liam gave all efforts to provide you
with something fun to interact with, a setting where all rubric guidelines are met, and hopefully
something refreshing from other projects. We are very excited for you to see our work and what
we have learned in this class!
Instructions Start on Next Page
STEP 1 (Setting Up MySQL on your local machine)
1.1
First we need to download MySQL on your device if not already installed.
If you already have MySQL downloaded and running on your device you can skip to section 1.2.
Click on this link mySQL and download the 8.0.35 version corresponding to your system. Make
sure to download MSI or DMG for whatever option it gives you.
It should prompt you to open the file you just downloaded. Continue through the installation
process. Do not edit any fields just click through , UNTIL YOU REACH ACCOUNTS AND
ROLES.
When it asks you to create a password you must enter ‘password’. Our backend is made to
connect to your local mysql server via
host: 'localhost', // MariaDB server host
user: 'root', // Database Username
password: 'password', // Database Password
database: '431_FANSHOP'
THIS IS A CRUICIAL STEP.
Continue throught the steps regularly to complete setup.
1.2 ONLY IF YOU ALREADY HAVE MySQL PREVIOUSLY DOWNLOADED …
Make sure your root password is ‘password’. If your password is already set to something else
here is a guide on how to change it to ‘password’. resetting permissions
If you can not figure out how to change your password please email jac7396@psu.edu that way
we can find a solution asap!
Step 2 (downloading backend server and nodejs)
2.1
We have added the 431w github account to our backend repository (via announcement).
Our repo name is called “server” and is owned by jcote2502.
You can download the zipped version of the server.
2.2
Once our repo is cloned to your local machine we need to install a few packages.
Visit nodejs and download the package specific to your machine.
After downloading, click through the installation process.
Navigate (in your command line/terminal/etc.) to the project directory ‘server’ and run the
following command.
server-main> npm install body-parser cors csv-parser fs mysql2
Stay in your command line.
Step 3 ( Initilizing Database and local api )
3.1
Still in that same directory run the following :
node PROJ_INNIT.js
What for it to show success and then you can press ctrl+c. This program adds our database to
your system for future connection. Then uses DML to initialize the tables and populate the
products and players data for display on our website.
3.2
In that same directory run the following :
node index.js
This creates a server on your local machine to serve as a backend, connecting your database to
our website. Once you see this running do not stop the service while you are using the site.
Step 4 ( Finding The Shop )
Upon arriving at the site we have a help bar located on the left side to provide you with user
interface features. Due to time limits we did not include a sign out feature because we met rubric
requirements elsewhere. Therefore to log out, navigate to the home page and click refresh.
To access our nfl fanshop click on the following link.
431nfl_fanshop
*Almost everything you need to see for grading is located in the SQL Folder of our repo*
Example for some Requirements:
● Join five tables in a useful way/sorts/analytical report: Get transactions
● A way of inserting: Add user (and many more)
● A way of deleting: Clear cart (and many more)
● A way of updating data: Update user
● A transaction involves more than a single SQL statement and with at least one rollback.:
Add user
● Error Trapping and recovery: Can be seen throughout application
● Our project includes 16 data features
● Our project includes 9 tables
